[Music]
well when you don't have any antibiotic
ointment on you
just put some sugar on the wound yes
that plain
sugar you add your coffee then cover it
with a makeshift bandage or any clean
cloth that doesn't block airflow
sugar granules soak up excess moisture
that bacteria thrive on
without moisture and bacteria the wound
heals faster
use a can tab to go fishing when you're
lost in the wild
just cut one side of the bottom hole at
the slant
use a file or a small rock if you must
to make the point
sharp also file down any jagged edges
elsewhere
the other hole at the top is for your
fishing line
don't throw the rest of the can away you
can make a mini cooker
cut a door in the side set the can on
the ground upside down
throw some kindling in and light it up
you can fry an egg on top
dental floss is a survival must-have you
can use it as your fishing line
clothesline or even rope a single strand
can hold up to 5
pounds and a braided line from just 3
can withstand up to 20 pounds
make a spear by binding a long stick and
a knife with some floss
it's also quite flammable and makes for
good tinder
if you're purposely about to venture out
into the wild
make your own fire starter at home and
bring it with you
heat up some glass in a saucepan put a
heat resistant container in the pan
a glass mason jar will do throw in some
paraffin wax in the glass
and wait for it to melt take an egg
carton and put some dryer lint in each
section
now pour some of your melted paraffin
wax in each one
let it cool and solidify when added to
tinder
the fire starts faster okay let's say
you don't have a lighter or matches
if you have a battery and a gum wrapper
that's all you need
cut a thin strip of the foil wrapper and
carve out the middle
so it's thinner than the ends get close
to the pile of dry
grass twigs or even some paper whatever
kindling you have
hold both ends of the wrapper on the
battery's ends and the thin
middle section will light up instantly
you can make your own mosquito repellent
with an orange
a lemon or any other citrus fruit that's
full of essential oils
peel the fruit crunch it a little in
your hands to get those precious oils
out
and rub the peel directly on your skin
you can also add orange peels to your
tender
the essential oils will get released as
the fire's burning
and it'll keep pesky mosquitoes away
to send a signal that you need rescue
cover three small
fires with any green vegetation then
throw some wet fabric on top to get big
white smoke puffs
three puffs in a row mean sos
adding some oil to your fire will turn
the smoke black it'll be more visible
against light skies
if you don't have oil use birch bark and
remember
the higher you start the fire the better
so try to climb to some visible elevated
area
if you get stuck in quicksand first off
stay calm
yeah i know but hang with me here
quicksand pits are rarely as dangerous
as movie show
you're not likely to sink more than up
to your waist
toss anything that makes you heavier
shoes bags even clothing
wiggle your legs to create room for
water it'll help you get away
get your body in a horizontal position
but do it on your back
not on your stomach go backwards with
small steps
big ones are hard to take so it'll take
longer to get out
when you reach the solid surface roll
out of the pit
if someone is tying your hands could be
with rope or even ribbon
start by keeping your elbows bent and
your hands in tight fists
as close to your body as you can keep
them when you straighten your arms
there will now be a little gap between
your wrists
with some maneuvering you can easily get
each hand out
if the perp used a zip tie clinch your
fists
press your knuckles together raise your
hands up above your head
and quickly bring them down the pressure
should snap the tie
if it's duct tape loosen it up with your
saliva
when crossing a dangerous water current
in a flooded area
choose a straight and wide section
before stepping into the stream
check if the flow is not too fast throw
a stick in it
and if it moves more quickly than your
normal walking pace
consider crossing in a different place
and if that was cold water your feet got
submerged in
get rid of your wet socks and put a
plastic baggie on each foot
then put your shoes back on even if
they're still damp it's okay
the plastic will retain your body heat
and keep your feet warm
in fact they'll probably sweat a lot to
make your own
char cloth you'll need a metal container
with a cover
like a mint tin put pieces of a cut up
cloth inside
and place the container in a fire for a
few minutes don't overheat it
the fabric should get dark but it should
still be intact
char cloth catches even the smallest
parts making it easier to set kindle on
fire
if you're trapped in a huge crowd rule
number one is to keep
moving with the flow stopping is the
fastest way to fall
if you do fall make an air pocket for
yourself
place your arms around your face and
chest if you somehow manage to get back
up
or if you didn't fall in the first place
keep moving with the crowd
but slowly make your way to the side
where you can escape
sources of drinkable water in the wild
can be iffy so try this makeshift filter
start with a fire boiling water may not
be enough
so as soon as the ashes are cool grind
them to a powder consistency
don't use charcoal you randomly found in
the woods you never know what's been in
there
cut off the bottom of a plastic bottle
and make a hole in the cap
turn it upside down put in some charcoal
a layer as wide as your palm is enough
and pour the water in what drips out
through the charcoal is safe to drink
to catch any excess coal getting through
wrap the cap with a piece of clean cloth
for
extra filtration a common tip for
swimming underwater
is to sort of hyperventilate before
taking in a big breath of air
don't do that this trick decreases the
co2 in your system
co2 is what gives your brain the signal
that you need to breathe
without that signal you could pass out
underwater
instead take one or two long steady
breaths with a pause at the end of each
inhale and exhale
it slows your heart rate so your body
won't demand as much oxygen
and don't push your limit when free
diving you can quickly make a strong
rope with a plastic bottle
but it takes some prep first cut off a
vertical branch from a tree
a little smaller than your bottle is
round make crosslits through the center
of the stump
and cut out a quarter section from it
next
cut off the bottom of the bottle and put
one side of the rest of the bottle
in the slit stick a large knife in the
cutout section of the stump
so it pierces the bottle the sharp side
of the blade should be pointing away
from you
now slowly pull on the little plastic
tongue at the bottom
and you'll see the bottle spin as it
spins
the blade will cut out the rope